POLICY 1: INTRODUCTION
This handbook is the summary of the policies, procedures, guidance and benefits to the employees and organization. It is an introduction to our vision, mission, values, what you expect from us and what we expect from you. We believe that employees are the assets of the organization and to understand them the positive work environment play an important role. This Employee Hand Book(EHB) is the confidential property of Sirca Paints India Limited (SPIL) and any use, distributing, copying or disclosure by any person to outsiders without any proper authorization is strictly prohibited. Any query or doubt concerning the content of the EHB should be forwarded to the Human Resources Department of SPIL. Applicability This EHB will be applicable to the employees working in Sirca Paints India Limited (SPIL) w.e.f August 21, 2020. This book contains all the notices/circulars/extracts/meetings circulated earlier before the date of validity of this handbook. Definitions a) “Company” means Sirca Paints India Limited (SPIL) and will its branches, offices/plants located anywhere in India or Abroad. b) “Board” means the “Board of Directors” of SPIL and it includes all Committee of Directors. c) “Approving Authority” means the management/higher authority i.e. Managing Director/Director of the Company. d) “Employee” means full time employment/retainership/interns/apprentice/Trainees or any other employee who is working with SPIL. e) “Dependents” means the employees family dependents. Family includes employee mother, father, spouse and children. The children age of above 24 will not be included as a Dependent Children. f) “Year” means the financial year i.e. April to March g) “Base City” means the native location, a permanent residence of the employee. h) “Posted City” means the work place where the employee will be posted at the time of joining. i) “Malfeasance” means official misconduct, an unlawful act which affects the performance of official duties. SPIL Corporate HR Policies

POLICY 2: COMPANY PROFILE
SPIL is a company engaged in marketing and trading/distribution of wood coatings and allied products. It is the first company to launch wood filler in India and opened the branches on PAN INDIA basis. Sirca Paints specialize in the production of coating for wood. This living material, which is increasingly valuable and essential in ecological terms deserves the best possible optimization and protection. Sirca Co-Founders The foundation of the company was laid down by Mr Sanjay Agarwal & Mr Gurjit Singh Bains in the year 2006 with a vision to have a distinct global presence in Paint Industry by providing high quality coating and technical assistance which leads to as healthy customer relationship. Company’s Vision To be one of the most respectable brands in the category through brand building initiatives, providing world class products with consistent, quality, leading to profitability and growth of everyone who is associated with the organization. Sales Vision : RESPECT R : Reliability You can count on us E : Excellence Is our Standard S : Service Customer First and accomplish the needs P : People Serve People with Fairness & Firmness E : Empowerment Enabling each to attain his/her potential C : Caring Care for all as we wish to be cared for T : Team work Foster a spirit of Team work. Commitment Sirca tries to provide the solutions as per the customer’s requirement & needs and also leads to innovative and cost saving solution within their total production process. "Team Sirca” works had to understand their customer’s products and production processes to become their most reliable & dependable, complete and innovative supplier for Wood Coating Solutions. SPIL Ethics Pledge – Word of Honor  It is the responsibility of every employee to put the efforts to achieve the higher productivity and service standards. SPIL Corporate HR Policies     Respect of the core values, policies and procedures, manuals to achieve the goals of the organization.  Proper and maximum utilization of manpower and resources to ensure the Company’s growth.  Employee will provide the best solution to the customer’s enquires or grievances.  Team Work and Excellence in work is working culture of the organization

POLICY 3: RECRUITMENT
The company policy on recruitment strives for equal opportunity to all irrespective of any distinction of gender, sexual orientation, caste or any disable applicants. All appointments will be done by the approval of the Director or Managing Director. Recruitment strategy of SPIL is strictly based on three points Talent Acquisition Talent Management Talent Development Talent Acquisition: GROWTH G: GREAT, R:Reward, O: Opportunity, W:Work, T: Team H: Helpful GREAT REWARD AND OPPORTUNITY OF WORK WITH TEAM AND HELPFUL ATMOSPHERE This policy covers the vacant position on PAN India basis across the functions, department, level, grade and hierarchy. The following steps are to be followed to hire the candidate a) The proper details will be given to the HR Department related to the candidate job description, age, gender, salary package, no of subordinates, qualifications and experience. b) The above details will be approved the Director/Managing Director and forward the details to the HR Department for the further step. c) HR Department will initiate the process of recruitment and hire the candidate from various sources like Employment Sites, Internal Job Posting, Referral Candidate Scheme, Campus Recruitment and Placement Agencies. Process of Recruitment: Candidate will be searched based upon the project assigned to the concerned department. The Department Head will send the email to the HR Department for the proper resources. SPIL Corporate HR Policies     Academic Qualification: Minimum qualification will be considered to fulfill the need of job responsibilities as per the vacant positions.  Short Listing : The candidate will be short listed on the basis of criteria mentioned in the job description. If required the Management can also considered the fresher’s candidate. Fresher’s Candidate short listing will be done on marks obtained in the graduation or post graduation.  Short-listed candidate will receive the email from the HR Department regarding the Company Profile, Interview Venue, Date, Time and other details (if required)  After short-listing, the Interview Recruitment Cell will take the interview of the candidate and the evaluation will be done. Interview Recruitment Cell will include the four members i.e. Technical Interviewer/Chief Financial Officer/Director/HR Representative.  After review and screening, the candidate will be finalized and transfer to the HR Department for Salary Negotiation.  Approval from the Interview Recruitment Cell will be taken and the details to be submitted that the recruitment will be done in the lieu of Business Expansion or Replacement. Based upon the discussion, the candidate will be finalized and the Offer Letter will be issued.  HR Department can initiate the process of “Reference Check” once the candidate will be finalized. On the discretion of the Interview Recruitment Cell, the reference check of the candidate will be waived off.  After Issuance of the Offer Letter, the candidate has to provide the acceptance of the same and submit the resignation copy to the HR Department.  The documents given in the Offer Letter will be submitted to the HR Department on the Date of Joining mention in the letter. HR Representative ensure that the all statutory forms will be filled by the employee. After submission of the above the HR Department will commence the process of the Induction and on-boarding process. New Hire Travel Expenses For the closure of the position, if the candidate will call from outside location. The Travel Expenses will be given as per the Travel Policy. New Hire Relocation Expenses The intercity relocation expenses may be considered for critical positions at per the discretion of the Management. SPIL Corporate HR Policies Campus Recruitment The above method plays very important role in the Recruitment Section. This will help to build the cadre of the students. The company can hire the students to give the right path and enhance their skills/abilities. The Company can hire the two ways recruitment section a) Internships Programme b) Campus Placement – On Roll Jobs Internships Programme: The Company can hire the students from the Reputed Colleges depend upon the number of students required for the particular project. The stipend will be given to the student amount of Rs 7000/- to boost the morale. The Department Heads will inform the HR Department in advance regarding the hiring of the students from colleges. Campus Placement – On Roll Jobs: While completing the education, the organization can hire the students as Management Trainee/Graduate Engineer Trainee/Junior Executives. The proper pay structure will be given to the students with the slab of Rs 250000 to 350000 per annum. The amount will be strictly based upon the Interview’s Performance. And based upon the performance of the candidate after a year, the Management Trainee/Graduate Engineer Trainee/Junior Executives will be promoted on the “Executive” Grade. Induction: a) Induction session of the organization comprises the information of the Organization Policy, Vision, Mission, Strategy and locations details. b) The HR Representative will give the proper induction training to the candidate and assign the HR Buddy for the candidate for 3 months only. c) The HR Representative will provide the Induction Kit, Stationary Kit, HR Manual and Brouchers&Pamphlets. d) First Day Lunch of the candidate will be organized by the Organisation.

POLICY 4: TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT
a) Sirca is the career and long term orientation and commitment to guide and develop the employees through the job training. To identify the training needs, the HR Representative have to identify at three levels : SPIL Corporate HR Policies Individual Level, Department Level &Organisational Level. b) Training Needs will be identified at the end of the Financial Year, during the Performance Appraisal. c) While evaluating the Performance Appraisal, Department Head will mention the details of the training on Individual Level/Department Level or Organisation Level. d) While Identify the training for the employee, the Department Head will have to check the number of the employee attend that particular training during the year and based upon that the plan will be prepared. e) Proper Form or the formal email with the approval of the Director/Managing Director will be given to the HR Representative. f) HR Representative will coordinate and arrange the training session for the candidates. The responsibility of the HR Representative to ensure that at least 4 people will be engaged in the particular training. g) With the consultation of the management, HR Representative can amend the training session based upon the availability of the faculty and the participant. h) In addition, the candidate who will participate in the paid training session, the proper training bondwill be signed by the employee and the duration of the training bond will be decided by the Management. Training Feedback a) After the training session, the employee has to submit the evaluator’s feedback to the organization. b) The Department Head will evaluate the employee after the particular training session on quarterly basis and submit the report to the HR Department. c) After the particular session, if the employee becomes the high-potential and benefit to the organization, then the additional incentive will be given.

POLICY 5: PROBATION AND CONFIRMATION
Probation : a) The probation period is the two way street for an employee, where the employee assess whether the role is suitable for them and the company is one they want to work for. SPIL Corporate HR Policies b) The main purpose of the probation period is to bring an effective employee on board and thorough monitoring and performance management process. c) It covers all the on roll new entrants in the organization and the candidate will be on probation of six months Process of Confirmation a) Appointment Letter given at the time of joining shows the clause of Probation Period. Every Employee has to complete the Probation Period on the basis of the following parameters. Job Knowledge, Quality of Work, Initiative and Creativity, Punctuality, Interpersonal Skills b) On the beginning of the six month, the email will given to the Departmental Heads for the assessment of the new entrants on the above parameters. c) The Department Head will assess the performance and submit the review of the employee to the HR Department. d) Employee has to earn the minimum category of “Average” and maximum category of “Excellent” for the confirmation. e) Depend upon the performance of the probationers and discretion of the management, the probationer’s compensation, grade, designation can be reviewed for motivation and better productivity. f) If the category earn was below “Average” then the extension for the probation of minimum of 1 month and maximum of 3 months will be issued. g) The employee has to submit the acknowledgement copy of the probation for the record purpose.

POLICY 6: ATTENDANCE & LEAVE MANAGEMENT
a) Employees are required to register their attendance electronically while reporting to work and before leaving the office through Attendance Biometric installed in the office premises, if not done then the attendance for the particular day will be considered as “Absent” and the deduction of pay and the leave will be done. b) Working Days : Monday to Saturday SPIL Corporate HR Policies c) For the betterment and work life balance, the organization had introduced the flexi-timing option. The details are as follows: i. 9 : 30 AM to 6 : 00 PM ii. 10 : 00 AM to 6 : 30 PM d) On the note of the above, 15 minutes will be considered as “Grace Period”, and beyond 15 minutes the leave will be deducted. e) Based upon the extreme emergency, the employees are allowed to come late till 11:45 AMfor two or three occasions and if required then leave the office by 4:30 PM this will strictly based upon the consent of the Management or Reporting Officers. f) Beyond the above mention timings, the half day leave will be considered. g) Employees who are on “Official Duty” (OD) or “On Tour” (OT) are requested to take the written approval in advance from their Reporting Officer and submit the same to the HR Department for record and attendance purpose. h) Employee will be eligible for 2 leaves in a month and the same can be avail after the completion of month. The leave given to the employee will be strictly based on the Date of Joining (i.e. Pro-Rata Basis). Employee who joins on the following dates will be eligible for the leave. 1st to 7th of every month : 2 8th to 14th of every month : 1.5 15th to 21st of every month : 1 22nd to 31st of every month : 0.5 i) The Leave given to the employee will be counted on Financial Year (i.e. April to March) and the balance as on March will be credited to the next financial year of employee leave balance account. The leave will not be En-cashed. j) Employee will inform in advance of 3 days before taking the leave and also specify the reason of the leave. Absence from office without information will be treated as “Absent” and same will attract the salary deduction. k) On extreme emergency, the employee will inform the leave to the Reporting Officer or HR Department via phone/message or email. SPIL Corporate HR Policies l) Marketing Department will submit the “Daily Time Report” (DTR) to their Reporting Officers and based upon their DTR the attendance will be marked. Reporting Officers will inform to the HR Department regarding the attendance of their respective team members/subordinate. m) Employee who will take the leave on Saturday and Monday, then the Sunday of that particular week will also be included. n) It is clear state that company follows the rule “NO WORK NO PAY”and unauthorized absent will be treated as “LOSS OF PAY”. o) It should be clearly understood that the responsibility of completion the attendance lies under the account of “EMPLOYEE” only. p) Maternity and Paternity Leave for the employee will be applicable as per the Maternity Act 1961. q) If the employee will take the continuous leave after festival then the festival will be considered as a Leave. r) Sunday will be treated as a leave, if the employee will take a leave on Saturday and Monday.

POLICY 7: COMPENSATORY LEAVE:
a) Employee who work on Sunday’s/Public Holiday will be eligible for the Compensatory Leave. Every Employee will take the approval or provide the information to their Reporting Officer and HR Department regarding the working of the days above. b) Employee who will on Sunday’s/Public Holiday, the lunch of Rs 100/- will be given to the employee. The same will be arranged by the Administration Department or by the employee and after that he/she can take the reimbursement for the same. c) To avail the Compensatory Leave, the employee has to complete minimum 6 hours of work. d) Before avail the Compensatory Leave, the employee has to inform in advance of 3 days. e) Compensatory Leave will not be taken in the long period leave. For Example if the employee will take the leave on Saturday as “Compensatory Leave” and also take the leave on Monday as Leave, then the Compensatory Leave will not be considered. f) Compensatory Leave will be avail within the month and the same will not be credited and lapsed after the month. For Example: If the employee will work on 26th Aug, then the employee can avail the compensatory leave till 25th Sept, not beyond than that. SPIL Corporate HR Policies

POLICY 8: OFFICE SECURITY
a) All Employees who are issued keys to the office are responsible for their safe keeping. b) The last employee worked at the end of the business working hours or designated employee will be responsible for the office security like all doors are securely locked, all appliances and lights are turned off with exception of the light normally left on for security purposes. c) Each Employee is expected to obey the rules and regulations abide by the Management related to the security purpose. d) All Employees are responsible for their own personal belonging and properties left in office. The Company assumes no liabilities for any loss or damage to personal belonging and property. e) The office space, equipment, material and other properties shall be used only for Sirca Paints India Limited (SPIL). Employee who uses the company property like : Laptop, Mobile Phones, Camera, Projectors and other material are responsible for the sake keeping of these equipment. f) To make the safety and security of the employees of Sirca, only authorize vendors are allowed to visit to the workplace. All vendors are authorized to enter through the main lift area and wait at the main reception area (if required). The proper visitor ID card will be given to the visitors before entering to the office.

POLICY 9: TRANSFER PROVISION
a) The company has to right to transfer you with immediate effect either in the subsidiary or associate of SIRCA or any location. b) In case of transfer of location, the employee is eligible to take the leave of 4 days as “Special Leave” by said leave; the employee can make the arrangement of shifting and resettlement. c) The employee will facilitate by the company by providing the “Relocation Grant” as the lump sum amount of one month salary for the arrangement of shifting, school and other miscellaneous expenses. d) The “Relocation Grant” amount will be approved by the Director/Managing Director. e) Relocation Grant will be given when the employee and his family will be transfer from one location to another. For Example: If the employee posted location is Delhi/NCR and based upon the project exigency the employee will transfer to Lucknow or any other place then the Relocation Grant will be applicable. f) The relocation grant will not be applicable when the employee will transfer from 150 kms from the posted location. SPIL Corporate HR Policies g) For Transferee, the clause of employment, policies and procedures of new company will be applicable. The proper appointment letter and other joining material will be given.

POLICY 10: NOTICES PERIOD
a) On Probation, the employee can resigns from the services by giving 10 days of notice. b) On Confirmation, the employee can resign from the services by giving the notice of 30 days (i.e. one month). c) The employee has to fill the Exit Interview Form and Clearance Form when resigned from the services. Exit Interview will directly submit to the HR Department either in the form of hard copy or soft copy. The HR Representative will take the Exit Interview and highlight the reason of resignation of the employee to the Management. Management decides and confirms if “retain” process will take place. d) Clearance Form means that the employee have to take the clearance from different department i.e. Accounts (for dues/advances), Information Technology (IT) (for deactivation of email id and submission of Laptop/Desktop), Administration (for submission of mobile sim, mobile phone, keys, stationary, Data Cards etc) and after that the form will be submitted to the HR Department for process of Full and Final Settlement. e) In addition of the above, Marketing Executive/Representative will take the clearance from the market (i.e. Balance Confirmation from the parties, submission of Form C and other details). f) After verbal discussion with the employee, Department Heads will accept or reject the Resignation Letter within 5 working days from the Date of Resignation. g) The full and final process will take around 30 days to complete. In case, if the employee had no dues with the organisation then the salary will be credited on the same month. h) If any grievances remain unresolved, the employee can directly contact to HR Representative at hr@sircapaints.com

POLICY 11: GRIEVANCES REDRESSAL SYSTEM
The objective of the Grievances Redressal procedure is to provide an easily accessible for settlement of the grievances in the organisation. Grievances can be defined as any communication that expresses dissatisfaction about an action or lack of action, about the standard of service. SPIL Corporate HR Policies a) Work Related Grievances. Intra Department Grievances/issues, should be referred to and discussed with the Supervisor/Department Head. The Department Head will understand the whole scenario and provide the resolution to the department. A proper counseling will given by the Department Head to the Complainant. b) Inter Department Grievances These Grievances referred to and discussed with their Supervisor/Departmental Head who will interface with his counterpart in other department for a resolution. Procedure: a) A Person sends a written complaint to the Human Resources Representative within 3 working days of the receipt of the grievances. b) The complainant shall take the acknowledgement from the Human Resources Department with the concerned person Name and Designation. c) The complaint includes the detailed description of the incidence. The Human Resources Department will take the prompt action on the complaint. d) The Human Resources Department will take the detail from the Reporting Officer and search for the relevant evidence of the said grievance. e) The Human Resources Representative will prepare the grievance report within 2 days of the submission of complaint and submit to the next escalation officer/cell. f) If a satisfactory resolution is not obtained by the escalation officers, then the grievance will forwarded to the Director/Managing Director. SPIL Corporate HR Policies PROCEDURE FOR GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL CELL Complaint Registered to HR Department Identification of Problem/Grievances Collection of Facts/Evidences Analyzing and solving the cause of Grievances Prepare the Report and submit to Management Implementation and Follow up For the above, Employee Counseling plays an important role in the grievances and acts as a reliable method to verify a counseling session has been provided to an Employee by the professionals. The Counselor for the employee is critical, as they will help develop more positive behavior and outcomes from the employee. Advantages of Employee Counseling a) Higher Staff Retention b) Reduce Absenteeism c) Increase the Morale and Confidence of an employee d) Encourages the employee to speak up regarding potential issues and increase accountability in work force.

POLICY 12: WELFARE AND ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Birthday Celebration Marriage Anniversary Wedding Ceremony Employee Children Merit Reward Salary Advance Maternity Leave Paternity Leave Compensatory Leave Extraordinary Leave & Work from Home Management Trainee Hiring SPIL Corporate HR Policies Flexi Working Schedule for Women Meal and Conveyance Charges Cellular Phone Birthday Celebration: The birthday of the employee will be celebrate by the company and the gift for the employee will be arranged by the Administration Department. Marriage Anniversary Marriage is the blissful loop of the sweet memories, and to make happiness with the partners, management had initiate with the couple movie tickets to the employees. Employee can take the reimbursement for the movie tickets, the amount of Rs 600/- will be given against the reimbursement. Wedding Ceremony A wedding is the ceremony where two people are united in marriage. Wedding traditions and customs vary greatly between cultures, ethnic groups, religions, countries and social class. In order to make them special and be a part of the organisation. On behalf of the Management, the gift cheque of Rs 10,000/- will be given to the newly weds. To make it operational, the employee has to submit his wedding card to the HR Department and then HR Representative will initiate the whole process. The amount will be paid, subject to the deduction of tax at source. Employee Children Merit Award Children are the future of India, and to boost and motivate them the Employee Children Merit Award will be introduced. This reward will be given to employee who secures the highest aggregate marks in School/Colleges. The details of the award is given below Class V: Rs 2500/- will be given as a CASH REWARD, if the child will secured the marks above 85%. Class VIII: Rs 3500/- will be given as a CASH REWARD, if the child will secured the marks above 80% SPIL Corporate HR Policies Class X: Rs 5000/- will be given as a CASH REWARD, if the child will secured the marks above 80% Class XII: Rs 10000/- will be given as a CASH REWARD, if the child will secured the marks above 80% The name of the secured child will be given on the website of Sirca Paints India Limited and also in the HR News Letter. Salary Advance An Employee can avail the salary advance after the approval from the Managing Director/Director. Salary advance will be given upto a maximum limit of three months of Gross Pay and the employee who had completed the successfully period of 1 year in the organisation may be availed. The same will be recover on the installment of 3/6/9/12 months. The total amount will be divided into the 3/6/9/12 months. This advance will be free of interest and may be availed on urgency such as medical expenses, marriage, home loan or house maintenance. Maternity and Paternity Leave Maternity and Paternity Leave will be applicable based upon the “The Maternity Act 1961”. Compensatory Leave Employee who work on Weekly off/Public Holiday due to some project or assignment emergency, can avail the Compensatory Leave. The compensatory leave will subject to the completion of 9 working hours will be considered as full day and 6 working hours will be considered as Half Day. Extra Ordinary Leave and Work from Home On the basis of Medical Ground (i.e. Any Accident, Fracture or any other problem). The employee can avail the 7 days leave and the same will be considered on Special Leave. To avail the said leave the employee has to submit the photocopy of the report and when rejoined the Medical Fitness Certificate to be submitted to HR Department. In case of emergency and after the approval of the Management, the employee can avail the service of work from home and this will be applicable only for 15 days. Management Trainee on Campus Recruitment The Organisation can hire the Fresher’s in BBA/MBA/B.Tech/BA/CA/CS or equivalent may be hired as “Management Trainee” or “Graduate Engineer Trainee” for a period of one year based upon the Campus Recruitments. They may be absorbed on an executive cadre subject to a successful completion of one year with the approval of Managing Director/Director. SPIL Corporate HR Policies Internship Programme: “You need experience to get experience”. Internship is a period of time in an industry to gain the knowledge of the work culture. A practical work background carries a major significance when attempting to enter the job market. College students can submit their application to the HR Department of the organisation regarding the Internships with their project details.After review of the respective department, the proper approval from the Management will be taken to process the Internship programme. The monetary benefit for the interns amounting Rs 7000/- will be considered as Stipend. After completion of the Internship programme, the intern has to submit the detailed project report and the proper review from the respective department will be taken. Based upon the review, the “Training Completion Certificate” will be issued. The intern has to submit the acknowledgement copy of the Training Completion Certificate to the HR Department for record purpose. Flexi Working Schedule Every employee in the company has an important role in ensuring the smooth and efficient flow of daily business activities. The purpose of attendance is to provide the clarity to all employees about the attendance criteria and to provide flexibility without compromising with the productivity of resources. The employee will avail the flexible working hours : 9:30 AM to 6:00 PM 10:00 to 6:30 PM Employee can avail the above services on daily basis and must be ensure that work or the project assigned will not be hamper and the productivity and profitability will be considered as our main source. Meal and Conveyance Charges Meal Charges : When an employees are required to work late or work on holidays/weekends in order to complete the certain assignments on time, they would be reimbursed meal expenses amounting Rs 100/- each. Conveyance Charges: When an employee are required to work late or work on holidays/weekends in order to complete the certain assignments on time, they would be reimbursed conveyance charges. For Example: On weekends/public holiday,Employee can take the reimbursement of the conveyance charges from the residence to the office (i.e. Corporate Or Registered Office). Employee can hire the OLA or UBER services and submit the bill to the Administration Department for process. SPIL Corporate HR Policies While working on the weekends or public holiday, the employee have to take the approval from their Reporting Officers/Director/Managing Director. If the employee will be late and had to work after working hours, then the employee will be eligible for the conveyance charges. For Example : If an employee will leave after 8:30 pm. So, he or she can avail the services of OLA or UBER and the reimbursement of such expenses will be given by the Administration Department after proper submission of bill.

POLICY 13: DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES
The Disciplinary Procedure will be used only when necessary and as LAST RESORT. Where possible, informal or formal counseling or other good management practice will resolve the matters prior to disciplinary action being taken. The procedures is intended to be positive rather than punitive but takes cognizance of the fact that sanctions may be applied in some circumstances. The new entrants will discussed any part of the policy with their Reporting Officers. They can help clarify an employee rights as well as give guidance and support where it may be needed. The part of the Disciplinary Procedures will be distributed into following categories. a) Suspension b) Counseling c) Warning d) Termination Suspension Suspension is not disciplinary action, it is the cooling down period for employer or employee. The purpose of suspension is manifold and can be used when it is necessary to remove an employee from the workplace pending an investigation. Above Hierarchy Level from the concerned position will have an authority to suspend an individual. An employee suspended from duty will receive the written communication within three days from the final meeting with the concern team. a) Reason of Suspension b) Date and Time from which the suspension will operate c) Timescale of On-Going Investigation The employee had a right to appeal to the immediate manager regarding the suspension reason and also specify the relevant facts and figures if required. SPIL Corporate HR Policies The suspension will be maximum done for 7 days and the “double” pay will be deducted for the suspension period. For Example: If the employee will suspend on 4 days, then the 8 days salary will be deducted. After the mutual understanding of the employee and employer, the employee will resume the duty and the apology letter will be given to the employer or any detail based upon the approval of the Managing Director/Director. If the suspension of the employee will be done two times in a year, then on the third time it will be considered as “Termination” from the organisation. Counseling Counseling is an attempt to correct a situation and prevent it from getting worse without having to use the disciplinary procedure and where improvement is required. While counseling it become clear that the matter is more serious, then the discussion will be adjourned and pursued under the formal disciplinary procedure. Warning Letter Warning Letter is the elaborate document containing text about the breach of HR Policy, detail of misconduct and consequences. Warning Letter will be issued on Verbal basis or written basis. Below the reason mention the warning letter will be issued. a) Attendance and Punctuality b) Smoking within unauthorized areas c) Unreasonable standards of dress or personal hygiene. d) Absence from Work e) Poor Performance f) Insubordination g) Refusal to Work Overtime h) Failure to Comply with Company Policy i) Misuse of Email or Telephone j) Improper Conduct Termination Termination of Employment is the inevitable part of the activity in the organization and this is the process will be done after the Warning Letter. Based upon the above reasons for the termination, first the warning letter and the proper one month notice is to be given to the employee and if required then based upon the re-evaluation from the superiors of the Department, the employee shall be revoke from the organization or else the termination process will take place. When employee is terminated, then no experience and reliving letter will be issue to employee, only clearance and exit form will be considered. SPIL Corporate HR Policies

POLICY 14: GRADE STRUCTURE
Grading consist of the sequence or hierarchy and bands. It helps to exist to make communications about the level of work and easier to understand for employer and employee. All employees of the Companies will be categorized as under: S.No Grades Grade Code 1 Vice Presidents GC1 Assistant Vice Presidents/Zonal Sales Manager/ 2 GC 2 General Manager/CFO/CS Head/Regional Sales Manager/Deputy General 3 GC 3 Manager Sr Manager/Sr Area Sales Manager/Assistant General 4 GC 4 Manager 5 Manager / Area Sales Manager GC 5 6 Deputy Manager/Deputy Area Sales Manager GC 6 7 Assistant Manager/Sales Manager GC 7 8 Executive/Senior Executives GC 8 9 Jr Executive/Supervisors/Interns GC 9

POLICY 15: PAY STRUCTURE
Monthly Salary Details Consists of following Salary Heads : a) Basic Salary b) House Rent Allowance c) City Compensatory Allowance d) Personal Allowance e) Local Conveyance for Marketing Staff All Details of the above will be depend upon Hierarchy and Grading of the Employee and the same will be given as Annexure – A in the Appointment Letter. Retrial Benefits: a) Provident Fund (PF) b) Employee State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) SPIL Corporate HR Policies c) Gratuity Scheme All Details of the above will be paid by the Employer and Employee as per the Government Rules & Regulations. The details of the Provident Fund and ESIC are given in the Appointment Letter. Gratuity : All Employees are currently eligible for employee who will complete the continuous service of 5 years in the organization and the benefits will be given as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972.

POLICY 16: CELL PHONES
Mobile Phones : Managers and above are eligible for the mobile phones and if below hierarchy level requires the mobile phone than the approval will be taken from the Competent Authority. Under this policy, Managers and above are permitted to exercise his choice and select the type of instrument he/she so desires, subject to the monetary limit assigned hereunder for such purchase. In case of Instrument choice below Manager will be taken by Administration Department. Grades Monetary Cap – Handset Cost Managing Directors As per Actuals NSM/VP and other grades comes under this Rs 25,000 hierarchy AVP/ZSM/GM/CFO/CS Rs 20,000 Managers to Head (Other Grades comes Rs 15,000 under this hierarchy) a) The above amounts of the respective grades are inclusive of the Hand Free/Screen Guard/Covers or any other mobile accessories. b) In case of loss of Cell Phone, the depreciated value of the cell phone shall be debited to the employee. c) In case of Travel Abroad, International Roaming/ISD facilities will be applicable to Zonal Sales Manager and above and for any other grades the Competent Authority Approval will be required. d) All Employees are eligible for the official Sim. The Reporting Manager will send the email to the Administration Department for the Sim card. The Employee will collect the official sim within three working days after the email received from the Reporting Manager. SPIL Corporate HR Policies

POLICY 17: PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE
The organization main motive for the Performance Incentive Policy is to achieve the outcomes and also to increase the work productivity. This policy goal is to encourage their employee to adopt healthier behavior through company engagement program. The performance is divided into three categories a) Financial Incentives b) Recognition based Incentives c) Specialty Awards Financial Incentives:In this incentive plan, Marketing Employees are eligible for this plan as this will be the target oriented plan. Based upon the location of the Marketing Employee, the different monetary target will be given and evaluation of the target/performance will be done in Half Yearly and the disbursement amount will be approved by the National Sales Manager/Managing Director. The Ratio of the Disbursement will be 80%, 90%, 100%. If the employee will be achieve their target on or above 100% ratio, and then the special trip with their team/Recognition Letter/Trophy will be given by the National Sales Manager for motivation. Recognition based Incentives:In this incentive plan, Support Function employees will be eligible for this plan and this plan will be closely observed by the Reporting Manager/Managing Director. This will be evaluated on yearly basis and the award will be awarded by Managing Directors. The award can be monetary or non-monetary basis. Specialty Awards: Every Employee is eligible for the Specialty Awards. This will be also evaluated on yearly basis and the employee will be awarded by the Managing Director. This will also be monetary or non-monetary basis.

POLICY 18: TRAVEL RULES
Domestic Travel : Travel Approval Authority: a) National Sales Manager/Zonal Sales Managers are eligible to approve the Travel of all the Marketing Employees whether it will be Airways/Roadways. SPIL Corporate HR Policies b) Within the 500 kms employees are eligible to cover with their own vehicle/Train. Own Vehicle reimbursement will be calculated @ Rs 5 &Rs 7 per kms. The reimbursement will be done on the basis of the posted location. c) In case of non-availability of the ticket/higher rate of ticket, the Administration Department will make the comparison between the Air Ticket/Train Ticket and opt the ticket whichever is cheaper. d) For Outside Local Conveyance, the employee will opt for the public transport (Bus/Auto/Metro’s) or any private cab for the long route (OLA/UBER). e) Lunch Charges will be Rs 100 to Rs 250 based upon the hierarchy level. Expenses of Business Promotion will be reimbursed as actual. All the bills of Business Promotion will be approved by the National Sales Manager/Zonal Sales Manager of their respective location. f) Hotels :All hotels will be booked by the Administration Department or in case of emergency the employee will make the self-booking and the reimbursement will be given. g) The categories of the Hotel are divided into A+ City, A City, B City and C City. The description of the hotel booking will be given in the Travel Policy. h) Employee with the same gender is travelling for one location and then the twin sharing room will be booked. i) If the hotel is in the outskirts of the location, then the employee have to inform to the Administration Department and the amount of the room, then the special approval will be taken by the employee. j) All the reimbursement will be submitted by the Employee within three working days from the travel closed.

POLICY 19: CONSULTANT ENGAGEMENT POLICY
This policy will be applicable when the organization is hiring the fresher or highly educated candidate for some specific period of time. The nature of work for this organization will be into consulting/ strategizing/ facilitating / advising/planning for a specific domain. Regular Consultant :Regular Consultant are hired for some specific project/period of work. These candidate can be fresher or experienced. Irregular Consultant :Irregular Consultant are hired for some specific project/Period of work. These candidate are experienced and time after the age of superannuation. SPIL Corporate HR Policies These consultants have to submit the invoice at end of the month and they are not entitled for the Provident Fund, ESIC and other statutory benefits. All other benefits of the company will depend upon the grades and hierarchy of the consultant. The same will be approved by the Managing Director at the time of joining of the consultant. Section : 20 Review and Amendment Management shall review this policy periodically and amendments required, if any shall be made accordingly. Section : 21 Residual Power This policy is basically guidelines and the management reserves the right to withdraw / modify to suit organization’s philosophy at any time without assigning any reason whatsoever. EFFECTIVE Commencement Of Policy August 21, 2018 Approved By : ___________SD/-_______________ Mr Sanjay Agarwal - CMD

